I'm just gonna brief this,
Wget is a command that I'm gonna show
you very briefly how to use, but
I wanna show you another one
that I like better called cURL.
And I think cURL is a better
command to Wget, but
again when you're like googling around and
you find stuff,
you're gonna find stuff that
has Wget in it quite a bit.
And it does do some useful things.
So I just want you to know what it is,
know how to use it, and
then we're gonna spend more time on cURL.
So Wget and cURL, they're two ways
of getting a remote file, right?
And not in the sense of SFTP where
you're moving things across the network.
What you're doing with Wget is like,
there is a file on GitHub and
I want to go download that file, right?
So you're basically downloading
something typically from the Internet.
It would work on a local network as well,
but in our case,
we're just gonna be doing
it from the Internet.
So I'm gonna show you where we're on here.
So we're down here in Wget,
this one right here.
And we're going to go download a game,
a bash game off the Internet.
So this GitHub user right here,
mydzo created a bash version
of the game 2048, right?
Have you played 2048?
I've played it way too much on my phone.
I have gotten 2048,
that's how much I've played that game.
And someone's gonna come here and
say, well I got like 19,000,
I was like you know what?
Okay, weird flex, but okay, sure.
So this user created 2048,
we're gonna go download it.
And so
we're gonna run this command right here.
So you can copy and paste this if
you want to, or you can write it in.
I have forked it to my GitHub repo just
because in the past when I create these
courses, people will change things,
and I don't want that.
So it's exactly the code that this user
wrote, so all credit goes to them.
And so you're just gonna be
getting it from my GitHub,
so that I can make sure that
this stays stable in the future.
Okay, so I'm gonna copy that.
You can even put it in
here if you wanna see it,
I'm not going to steal
all of your credentials.
Man, that would have been a great
lesson that I could have taught people.
I could have totally made this like
some sort of thing which is like,
you've been hacked, and have like a skull
show up, like 1990s hacker kind of thing.
Missed opportunities,
I guess I still could after this course.
I could go in there and I could change it
and just scare the hell out of people, and
teach them a very strong lesson.
But then, I don't know,
somebody's gonna get upset.
I mean, somebody's gonna get
upset anyway that I didn't do it.
Anyway, we can see here, this is the game.
And I went through it line by line,
this is fine, you can run it.
I'm gonna run it right now for you.
Anyway, so I'm gonna cut and
paste that in here at Wget.
And what this is just gonna do is
it's gonna go out to the Internet,
it's gonna download this file, and it's
going to just leave it with the same name
that it came in as, which is bash2048.sh.
So if I run that, you can see there
it's gonna go out, it's gonna connect,
it's gonna download it, and
you can see at the end of this, and
I put the file here called bash2048.sh.
Right, make sense?
So if you look at the permissions on this
file though, by default even though it's
a .sh file, you still have to give it
permissions to be an executable, right?
Cuz this is a file that you can run.
So you can do one of two things.
You can either say bash2048 like that, and
you can actually pipe at
it directly in the bash, or
we can make this an executable
file by saying chmod either 700 or
we could do +x,
I hope we'll just do +x, bash2048.sh.
So now if we look again at it,
you can see that it's nice and green.
That's because my LS color show
things that are executable as green.
And you can see here now it has executable
permissions for everybody, right?
So now I can just save bash2048.sh.
Dot rather.
And you can see here I am actually
now running 2048 in my command line,
which is pretty cool, right?
So now you're gonna have to sit here and
watch me play this until I lose.
So you might be here, well,
you might wanna grab like a sandwich.
I'm just kidding,
no one wants to see that.
But that's pretty cool, right?
We were able to download this
using Wget off the Internet, and
now we can start playing it in here.
I thought it was pretty cool, okay?
So now, I mean you are welcome to
like abandon ship on this course and
just play this for the rest of
your life or maybe not suggest it.
But I think then that we
can do a Ctrl > C, and
you can have like the ability to save
the game, I'm just gonna say no.
It says you have lost,
well, that's nice to them.
The thing that was annoying about
this is it does actually totally
exit your shell whenever you finish.
So I've actually totally lost
control of my shell here, so
I actually have to open
another shell here.
Okay, so the point here that you should
be getting is Wget it's like copy,
like CP for the Internet.
You can say, I know of a remote URL
that I want you to go out here and
I want you to copy it here, right?
So you can think of it as like
the network version of CP.
The thing that Wget is not useful for is
it doesn't connect into the pipes, right?.
So that's why I'm gonna show
you cURL next, cuz cURL,
you can pipe things from the Internet
into other programs, right?
Cuz it uses standard in and standard out,
whereas Wget is more like CP, right?
So it's more like file goes here,
file comes here, that kind of thing.
Wget can do all sorts of
other things as well.
It can also do POST requests and
PUT requests, and
all sorts of stuff like that.
However, I'm gonna show you how
to do all that stuff in cURL, so
I'm not gonna show you how to do it twice.
I just wanted you to be
aware that Wget exists.
The one thing that Wget does and
that is the reason to know about
Wget that cURL cannot do,
is it can redo recursive downloads.
So imagine there's a website out
there that has a bunch of CSS and
a bunch of JavaScript, and
those things linked out to other files
that link out to other files, right?
And they're kind of like this
web of files that go out.
Wget will actually read through,
find other URLs, and
download those URLs as well, right?
So you can actually recursively
download entire websites using Wget,
whereas cURL does not
have that capability.
So whenever you need to do those sorts
of like go grab me this entire website,
Wget can do that for you.
Otherwise I would say,
100% of the time just use cURL, cool.
Any questions about Wget?
All right.
Yeah, and again, as always,
you can just say wget dash, dash help.
This will tell you a lot
of stuff that it can do.
You can see that it has
a lot of capabilities here.
So yeah,
again absolutely nothing against Wget.
Fantastic program,
it's been around forever,
it's worth knowing about and
knowing where it is.
I just prefer cURL for its ability to plug
into the greater Unix, Linux ecosystem.